Update README.md (#1)
webpack/changelog-v5: README.md

This release focus on the following:

> - We try and improve build performance with Persistent Caching.

Reviewer: Can you explain the change here?

Author: I changed this before realising it is the opposite, and forgot to delete (was a long commit after all)
try and is mainly used for friendly conversations, whereas try to is the correct approach.
Will change.

Author: reverted

- We try and improve Long Term Caching with better algorithms and defaults.
- We try and cleanup internal structures that were left in a weird state, while implementing features in v4 without introducing any breaking changes.
- We try and prepare for future features by introducing breaking changes now, allowing us to stay on v5 for as long as possible.

# Major Changes

## Removed Deprecated Items

All items deprecated in v4 were removed.

MIGRATION: Make sure that your webpack 4 build does not print deprecation warnings.

Here are a few things that were removed but did not have deprecation warnings in v4:

- IgnorePlugin and BannerPlugin must now be passed an options object.

## Automatic Node.js Polyfills Removed

> In the early days, Webpack's aim was to allow running most node.js modules in the browser, but the module landscape changed and many module uses are now written mainly for frontend purposes. webpack <= 4 ships with polyfills for many of the node.js core modules, which are automatically applied once a module uses any of the core modules (i.e. the `crypto` module).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the early days, webpack's aim was to allow running most node.js modules in the browser, but the module landscape changed and many module uses are now written mainly for frontend purposes. webpack <= 4 ships with polyfills for many of the node.js core modules, which are automatically applied once a module uses any of the core modules (i.e. the `crypto` module).
```

While this makes using modules written for node.js easy, it adds these huge polyfills to the bundle. In many cases these polyfills are unnecessary.

> Webpack 5 stopped automatically polyfilling these core modules and focuses on frontend-compatible modules only.

Reviewer: Webpack 5 stopped automatically polyfilling these core modules and focuses on frontend-compatible modules only
```suggestion
webpack 5 stops automatically polyfilling these core modules and focuses on frontend-compatible modules only.
```
Please read https://webpack.js.org/branding/#the-name for further info.

FEEDBACK: Please provide us with feedback whether you like or dislike the above mentioned change. We are uncertain whether this will make it into the final release or not.

## Deterministic Chunk and Module IDs

New algorithms were added for long term caching. These are enabled by default in production mode.

`chunkIds: "deterministic", moduleIds: "deterministic"`

The algorithms assign short (3 or 4 charachter) numeric IDs to modules and chunks in a deterministic way.
This is a trade-off between bundle size and long term caching.

MIGRATION: Best use the default values for `chunkIds` and `moduleIds`. You can also opt-in to the old defaults `chunkIds: "size", moduleIds: "size"`, this will generate smaller bundles, but invalidate them more often for caching.

## Named Chunk IDs

A new named chunk id algorithm enabled by default in development mode, gives chunks (and filenames) human-readable names.
A Module ID is detemined by its path, relative to the `context`.
A Chunk ID is determined by the chunk's content.

So you no longer need to use `import(/* webpackChunkName: "name" */ "module")` for debugging.

> But it would still make sense, if you want to control the filenames in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it would still make sense, if you want to control the filenames for production.
```
production is something implicit here.

It's possible to use `chunkIds: "named"` in production, but make sure not to accidentically expose sensitive information about module names.

MIGRATION: If you dislike the filenames being changed in development, you can pass `chunkIds: "natural"` in order to use the old numberic mode.

## Compiler Idle and Close

Compilers now need to be closed after being used. Compilers now enter and leave idle state and have hooks for these states. Plugins may use these hooks to do unimportant work. (i. e. the Persistent cache slowy stores the cache to disk). On compiler close - All remaining work should be finished as fast as possible. A callback signals the closing as done.

> Plugins and their respective authors should expect that some users may forget to close the Compiler. So, all work should eventually be finishing while in idle too. Processes should be prevented from exiting when the work is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins and their respective authors should expect that some users may forget to close the Compiler. So, all work should eventually be finishing while in idle too. Processes should be prevented from exiting when the work is being done.
```

- We try to cleanup internal structures that were left in a weird state, while implementing features in v4 without introducing any breaking changes.
- We try to prepare for future features by introducing breaking changes now, allowing us to stay on v5 for as long as possible.

# Major Changes

## Removed Deprecated Items

All items deprecated in v4 were removed.

MIGRATION: Make sure that your webpack 4 build does not print deprecation warnings.

Here are a few things that were removed but did not have deprecation warnings in v4:

- IgnorePlugin and BannerPlugin must now be passed an options object.

## Automatic Node.js Polyfills Removed

In the early days, webpack's aim was to allow running most node.js modules in the browser, but the module landscape changed and many module uses are now written mainly for frontend purposes. webpack <= 4 ships with polyfills for many of the node.js core modules, which are automatically applied once a module uses any of the core modules (i.e. the `crypto` module).

While this makes using modules written for node.js easy, it adds these huge polyfills to the bundle. In many cases these polyfills are unnecessary.

> webpack 5 stops automatically polyfilling these core modules and focuses on frontend-compatible modules only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
webpack 5 stops automatically polyfilling these core modules and focuses on frontend-compatible modules.
```

`only` is a bit hard. Other modules are still supported.

MIGRATION:

- Try to use frontend-compatible modules whenever possible.
- It's possible to manually add a polyfill for a node.js core module. An error message will give a hint on how to achieve that.
- Package authors: Use the `browser` field in `package.json` to make a package frontend-compatible. Provide alternative implementations/dependencies for the browser.

> FEEDBACK: Please provide us with feedback whether you like or dislike the above mentioned change. We are uncertain whether this will make it into the final release or not.

Reviewer 3: @sokra we should also point to the place where users can give feedback by adding a link here.
Maybe an issue on this repo would work?

Reviewer: I believe it is implicit.

Reviewer 3: Having a single place for feedback is better for us as well as for those giving feedback.

It's not that implicit, one can file issue on main webpack repo or on this repo or maybe tweet feedback :) .

Reviewer 3: Actually there is already a place to give feedback which is here https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/8537 😅

}
```

> MIGRATION: Check which types of sizes are used in your build and configure these in `splitChunks.minSize` and optinally in `splitChunks.maxSize`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MIGRATION: Check which types of sizes are used in your build and configure these in `splitChunks.minSize` and optionally in `splitChunks.maxSize`.
```

## Persistent Caching

There is now an experimental filesystem cache. It's opt-in and can be enabled with `cache: { type: "filesystem" }` in the configuration.
Currently only the core feature set is ready, and when using it one should be aware of the current limitations to avoid unexpected bugs.

> Please do not use this feature if you don't understand the limitations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Please do not use this feature if you don't understand the limitations.**
```

There is an automatic cache invalidation for resolving module source code and filesystem structure.
There is **no** automatic cache invalidations for configurations and loader/plugin/core changes!
There is an option for manual cache invalidation for configuration or build code changes (`cache.version`).

> Do not worry, we plan on adding this, but it's not yet ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not worry, we plan on adding this, but it's not ready yet.
```

- `optimization.nodeEnv` defaults to `false` in `none` mode
- `resolve(Loader).cache` defaults to `true` when `cache` is used
- `resolve(Loader).cacheWithContext` defaults to `false`
- `node.global` defaults to `false`

# Major Internal Changes

The following changes are only relavant for plugin authors:

## Runtime Modules

A large part of the runtime code was moved into the so called "runtime modules". These special modules are in-charge of adding runtime code. They can be added in to any chunk, but are currently always added to the runtime chunk. "Runtime Requirements" control which runtime modules are added to the bundle. This ensures that only runtime code that is used is added to the bundle. In the future, runtime modules could also added to an on-demand-loaded chunk, to load runtime code when needed.

The core runtime is now very small and only includes the `__webpack_require__` function, module factories and the module instance cache. In the future, an alternative code runtime can be used to avoid wrapping the bundle in a IIFE and allow ESM style exports. This will allow ESM as target.

> As some responsibilities from Main and ChunkTemplate were removed, several associated hooks were removed respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As some responsibilities from Main and ChunkTemplate were removed, several associated hooks were removed as well.
```

MIGRATION: If you are injecting runtime code into the webpack runtime in a plugin, consider using RuntimeModules instead.

## Serialization

A serialization mechanism was added to allow serialization of complex objects in webpack. It has an opt-in semantic, so classes that should be serialized need to be explicitly flagged (and their serialization implemented). This has been done for most Modules, all Dependencies and some Errors.

> MIGRATION: When using custom Modules or Dependencies, make sure to provide them with serialization implemented, in order to benefit from persistent caching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MIGRATION: When using custom Modules or Dependencies, it is recommended to make them serializable to get the benefit from persistent caching.
```

Author: `get the benefit from` is incorrect, it should either be `benefit from` or `get the benefit of`
```suggestion
MIGRATION: When using custom Modules or Dependencies, it is recommended to make them serializable to benefit from persistent caching.
```

## Extensible Caching

A `Cache` class with a plugin interface has been added. This class can be used to write and read to the cache. Depending on configuration, different plugins can add the functionality to the cache. The `MemoryCachePlugin` adds in-memory caching. The `FileCachePlugin` adds persistent (file-system) caching.

The `FileCachePlugin` uses the serialization mechanism to persist and restore cached items to/from the disk.

## Hook Object Frozen

> Classes with `hooks` have their `hooks` object frozen, so adding custom hooks is no longer an option via this method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classes with `hooks` have their `hooks` object frozen, so adding custom hooks is no longer possible this way.
```
Let it be as simple as possible.

## Compilation.fileSystemInfo

This new class can be used to access information about the filesystem in a cached way. Currently it allows to ask for both file and directory timestamps. Information about timestamps is transferred from the watcher if possible, otherwise determined by filesystem access.

In the future, asking for file content hashes will be added and modules will be able to check validity with file contents instead of file hashes.

MIGRATION: Instead of using `file/contextTimestamps` use the `compilation.fileSystemInfo` API instead.

## Hot Module Replacement

HMR runtime has be refactored to Runtime Modules. `HotUpdateChunkTemplate` has been merged into `ChunkTemplate`. ChunkTemplates and plugins should also handle `HotUpdateChunk`s now.

The javascript part of HMR runtime has been separated from the core HMR runtime. Other module types can now also handle HMR in their own way. In the future, this will allow i. e. HMR for the mini-css-extract-plugin or for WASM modules.

MIGRATION: As this is a newly intorduced functionality, there is nothing to migrate.

## Work Queues

> Webpack used to handle module processing by functions calling functions, and a `semaphore` which limits parallelism. The `Compilation.semaphore` has been removed and async queues now handle work queuing and processing. Each step has a separate queue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
webpack used to handle module processing by functions calling functions, and a `semaphore` which limits parallelism. The `Compilation.semaphore` has been removed and async queues now handle work queuing and processing. Each step has a separate queue:
```

- `Compilation.factorizeQueue`: calling the module factory for a group of dependencies.
- `Compilation.addModuleQueue`: adding the module to the compilation queue (may restore module from cache).
- `Compilation.buildQueue`: building the module if neccessary (may stores module to cache).
- `Compilation.rebuildQueue`: building a module again if manually triggered.
- `Compilation.processDependenciesQueue`: processing dependencies of a module.

These queues have some hooks to watch and intercept job processing.

In the future, multiple compilers may work together and job orchestration can be done by intercepting these queues.

MIGRATION: As this is a newly intorduced functionality, there is nothing to migrate.

## Module and Chunk Graph

> Webpack used to store a resolved module in the dependency, and store the contained modules in the chunk. This is no longer the case. All information about how modules are connected in the module graph are now stored in a ModuleGraph class. All information about how modules are connected with chunks are now stored in the ChunkGraph class. Information which depends on i. e. the chunk graph, is also stored in the related class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
webpack used to store a resolved module in the dependency, and store the contained modules in the chunk. This is no longer the case. All information about how modules are connected in the module graph are now stored in a ModuleGraph class. All information about how modules are connected with chunks are now stored in the ChunkGraph class. Information which depends on i. e. the chunk graph, is also stored in the related class.
```

- Module is runtime module in chunk -> ChunkGraph
- Chunk runtime requirements -> ChunkGraph

> Webpack used to disconnect modules from the graph when restored from cache. This is no longer necessary. A Module stores no info about the graph and can technically used in multiple graphs. This makes caching easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
webpack used to disconnect modules from the graph when restored from cache. This is no longer necessary. A Module stores no info about the graph and can technically used in multiple graphs. This makes caching easier.
```

There is a compat-layer for most of these changes, which prints a deprecation warning when used.

MIGRATION: Use the new APIs on ModuleGraph and ChunkGraph

> ## Initialize Fragments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Init Fragments
```

Better keep `Init Fragments` as name as they are also called this way internally and multiple names could be confusing

Author: ohh right, didn't realize that. Thanks.

## Module Source Types

Modules now have to define which source types they support via `Module.getSourceTypes()`. Depending on that, different plugins call `source()` with these types. i. e. for source type `javascript` the `JavascriptModulesPlugin` embeds the source code into the bundle. Source type `webassembly` will make the `WebAssemblyModulesPlugin` emit a wasm file. Custom source types are also supported, i. e. the mini-css-extract-plugin will probably use the source type `stylesheet` to embed the source code into a css file.

There is no relationship between module type and source type. i. e. module type `json` also uses source type `javascript` and module type `webassembly/experimental` uses source types `javascript` and `webassembly`.

MIGRATION: Custom modules need to implement these new interface methods.

## Extensible Stats

Stats `preset`, `default`, `json` and `toString` are now baked in by a plugin system. Converted the current Stats into plugins.

MIGRATION: Instead of replacing the whole Stats functionality, you can now customize it. Extra information can now be added to the stats json instead of writing a separate file.

> # Smaller Changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Minor Changes
```

  - This means it can now concatenate in cases of `module`, `global`, `process` or the ProvidePlugin
- `exec` removed from the loader context
  - MIGRATION: This can be implemented in the loader itself
- `Stats.presetToOptions` removed
  - MIGRATION: Use `compilation.createStatsOptions` instead
- SingleEntryPlugin and SingleEntryDependency removed
  - MIGRATION: use EntryPlugin and EntryDependency
- Chunks can now have multiple entry modules
- ExtendedAPIPlugin removed
  - MIGRATION: No longer needed, `__webpack_hash__` and `__webpack_chunkname__` can always be used and runtime code is injected where needed.
- ProgressPlugin `entries` option now defaults to `on`
- ProgressPlugin no longer uses tapable context for `reportProgress`
  - MIGRATION: Use `ProgressPlugin.getReporter(compiler)` instead
- ProvidePlugin is now re-enabled for `.mjs` files
- Stats json `errors` and `warnings` no longer contain strings but objects with information splitted into properties.
  - MIGRATION: Access the information on the properties. i. e. `message`
- Compilation.hooks.normalModuleLoader is deprecated
  - MIGRATION: Use `NormalModule.getCompilationHooks(compilation).loader` instead

> # Unimportant Smaller Changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Other Minor Changes
```
`Unimportant` is too generic to be used here.

  - MIGRATION: Use `setId` instead
- acorn 5 -> 6
- Testing

>   - HotTestCases now run for multiple targets `async-node` `node` `web` `webworker`

Author: ```suggestion
  - HotTestCases now runs for multiple targets `async-node` `node` `web` `webworker`
```

>   - TestCases now also runs for filesystem caching with `store: "instant"` and `store: "pack"`

Reviewer: `runs` seems to be the grammatically correct one. Can you explain the change here?

Author: i changed it to `runs`, also needs changing in line 535.

Author: done
